This is the Executive Summary of the Designed System

  The definition of open source does not necessarily mean free access to source code. It also involves the responsibilities with distribution and maintenance. The terms that anyone wanting to use open source need to comply with free redistribution, source code distribution, modified work distribution, no discrimination, technology neutral license, license should not be product specific and license must not restrict other software (The Open Source Definition, 2007). With the establishment of open source community, organizations can easily get access to solutions that can resolve its issues. The developers involved in developing source code for the organizations usually bring in the open source code to the organization which helps them better achieve the business requirements. Open source software and code can be used by anyone but need to do that under the license agreement specified within the package. Developers integrate the code through the help of open source communities like Stack Overflow. This is an example of a community where the developers can post issues and get solutions or provide solutions to issues posted. When the code is integrated to the organizations proprietary code, this also brings in the risk to the organization. Organizations need to be able to address the licensing and vulnerabilities efficiently to be able to avoid risks and better tailor the solutions as per organization’s needs. According to Cobb (2013), “there is no guarantee that open source code is bug free, or even that it was developed with the open source code management processes that are necessary to make code viable for use in enterprise applications. Even an open source project with an active user community can contain vulnerabilities, both old and newly discovered. The open source Ruby on Rails Web application framework, for example, has already been hit by several security vulnerabilities this year, putting an estimated 200,000-plus site at risk of attacks that could lead to remote code execution. Even worse, the bugs were introduced back in 2007, meaning they are present in all versions of the framework released during a six-year period."
  
The problem posed by the risks associated with bringing the open source code to the organization needs to be addressed correctly by the organization. The solution to the issues and risks needs to be designed by the organization to better handle the licensing and vulnerabilities. The intention of the solution is not to increase or close the gap between the organization and the open source community. The solution of the proposed system is to reduce the overheads on the developers and managers in an organization. The system is designed to automate the process of discovering, maintaining, updating and modifying the package information based on the licenses and vulnerabilities pointed out by the system. According to Williams (2014), "once developers have started to use your open-source software, you should expect that community members will run into the same sort of issues that anyone runs into with software: bugs and undocumented features." The proposed system will enable the corporate managers to scan the licenses and vulnerabilities information to and from the organization to the open source community. The corporate manager will be able to gather requirements for modifying the package when needed. According to Thomas (2013), "managing open source licenses does not need to be an arduous task. Catching OSS license policy violations as they arise will cut down on the time and cost involved in fixing the issues and will help get products to market faster. Using preventative processes and the appropriate tools lets you reap the benefits of Agile and OSS, while keeping your OSS license policy in check."
  
  
  References
  
Cobb, M. (2013, August 1). Open source code management: How to safely use open source libraries. Retrieved December 8, 2015, from http://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/tip/Open-source-code-management-How-to-safely-use-open-source-libraries

The Open Source Definition. (2007, March 20). The Open Source Initiative. Retrieved December 8, 2015, from http://opensource.org/osd


